Style Guide: enum msg, ask, tot fun, naming, meth ref, intro, #22805 (#27337)
akka/akka: akka-docs/src/main/paradox/typed/style-guide.md

Java
:  @@snip [StyleGuideDocExamples.java](/akka-actor-typed-tests/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/typed/StyleGuideDocExamples.java) { #public-private-messages-2 }

@@@ div {.group-java}

### Singleton messages

For messages without parameters the `enum` singleton pattern is recommended:

Java
:  @@snip [StyleGuideDocExamples.java](/akka-actor-typed-tests/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/typed/StyleGuideDocExamples.java) { #message-enum }

In the `ReceiveBuilder` it can be matched in same way as other messages:

Java
:  @@snip [StyleGuideDocExamples.java](/akka-actor-typed-tests/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/typed/StyleGuideDocExamples.java) { #message-enum-match }

@@@

@@@ div {.group-java}

> ## Lamdas vs. method references

Reviewer: I'd spell it out for a section title
```suggestion
## Lamdas versus method references
```

Author: I thought it wouldn't fit in the left ToC, but it does.
Longest is: Functional versus object-oriented style

Reviewer: Hrm, the Toc, ok.

> It's recommended to keep the message matching in with the `ReceiveBuilder` as short and clean as possible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's recommended to keep the message matching with the `ReceiveBuilder` as short and clean as possible
```

> and delegate to methods. That improves readability and it's easy to navigate the methods with an IDE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and delegate to methods. That improves readability and ease of method navigation with an IDE.
```

Java
:  @@snip [StyleGuideDocExamples.java](/akka-actor-typed-tests/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/typed/StyleGuideDocExamples.java) { #on-message-method-ref }

`this::onGetValue` is a method reference in above example. It corresponds to `command -> onGetValue(command)`.

If you are using IntelliJ IDEA it has support for converting lambdas to method references.

More important than the choice between lambdas or method references is to avoid lambdas with a large block of code.
An anti-pattern would be to inline all message handling inside the lambdas like this:

Java
:  @@snip [StyleGuideDocExamples.java](/akka-actor-typed-tests/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/typed/StyleGuideDocExamples.java) { #on-message-lambda-anti }

In a real application it would often be more than 3 lines for each message.
It's not only making it more difficult to get an overview of the message matching, but compiler errors related
to lambdas can sometimes be difficult to understand.

Ideally, lambdas should be written in one line of code. Two lines can be ok, but three is probably too much.
Also, don't use braces and return statements in one-line lambda bodies.

@@@

@@@ div {.group-scala}

> ## Partial vs. total Function

Reviewer: Same as `vs.` thought above.

Reviewer 2: bit funky with entries in the TOC that disappears when you switch languages, can we make this one and the ask one L3 headers instead?

Author: what's funky about it? it works, and also I don't think normal users switch back and forth

It's recommended to use a `sealed` trait as the super type of the commands (incoming messages) of a an actor
because then the Scala compiler will emit a warning if a message type is forgotten in the pattern match.

Scala
:  @@snip [StyleGuideDocExamples.scala](/akka-actor-typed-tests/src/test/scala/docs/akka/typed/StyleGuideDocExamples.scala) { #messages-sealed }

That is the main reason for why `Behaviors.receive`, `Behaviors.receiveMessage` takes a total `Function` and
not a `PartialFunction`.

The compiler warning if `GetValue` is not handled:

```
[warn] ... Counter.scala:45:34: match may not be exhaustive.
[warn] It would fail on the following input: GetValue(_)
[warn]         Behaviors.receiveMessage {
[warn]                                  ^
```

> Note that a `MatchError` will be thrown in runtime if a message is not handled, so it's important to pay

Reviewer 3: at runtime?

attention to those. If a `Behavior` should not handle certain messages you can still include them
in the pattern match and return `Behaviors.unhandled`.

Scala
:  @@snip [StyleGuideDocExamples.scala](/akka-actor-typed-tests/src/test/scala/docs/akka/typed/StyleGuideDocExamples.scala) { #pattern-match-unhandled }

> One thing to be aware of is that the exhaustiveness check is not enabled when there is a guard condition in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One thing to be aware of is the exhaustiveness check is not enabled when there is a guard condition in the
```

pattern match cases.

Scala
:  @@snip [StyleGuideDocExamples.scala](/akka-actor-typed-tests/src/test/scala/docs/akka/typed/StyleGuideDocExamples.scala) { #pattern-match-guard }

Therefore it can be better to not use the guard and instead move the `if` after the `=>`.

Scala
:  @@snip [StyleGuideDocExamples.scala](/akka-actor-typed-tests/src/test/scala/docs/akka/typed/StyleGuideDocExamples.scala) { #pattern-match-without-guard }

It's recommended to use the `sealed` trait and total functions with exhaustiveness check to detect mistakes
of forgetting to handle some messages. Sometimes that can be inconvenient and then you can use a `PartialFunction`
with `Behaviors.receivePartial` or `Behaviors.receiveMessagePartial`

Scala
:  @@snip [StyleGuideDocExamples.scala](/akka-actor-typed-tests/src/test/scala/docs/akka/typed/StyleGuideDocExamples.scala) { #pattern-match-partial }

@@@

@@@ div {.group-scala}

> ## ask vs ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## `ask` versus `?`
```

Author: yeah, I don't think we should have formatting in headings

When using the `AskPattern` it's recommended to use the `ask` method rather than the `?` operator.

Scala
:  @@snip [StyleGuideDocExamples.scala](/akka-actor-typed-tests/src/test/scala/docs/akka/typed/StyleGuideDocExamples.scala) { #ask-1 }

Instead of the `replyTo` you can use `_` for less verbosity.

Scala
:  @@snip [StyleGuideDocExamples.scala](/akka-actor-typed-tests/src/test/scala/docs/akka/typed/StyleGuideDocExamples.scala) { #ask-2 }

When using `?` the following doesn't compile because of type inference problem:

Scala
:  @@snip [StyleGuideDocExamples.scala](/akka-actor-typed-tests/src/test/scala/docs/akka/typed/StyleGuideDocExamples.scala) { #ask-3 }

> By adding parentheses it works but that is rather ugly, and therefore better to stick with `ask`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By adding parentheses it works but is rather ugly, and therefore better to stick with `ask`.
```

Scala
:  @@snip [StyleGuideDocExamples.scala](/akka-actor-typed-tests/src/test/scala/docs/akka/typed/StyleGuideDocExamples.scala) { #ask-4 }

Note that `AskPattern` is only intended for request-response interaction from outside an actor. If the requester is

> inside of an actor you should prefer `ActorContext.ask` as that provides better thread-safety by not involving

Reviewer: ```suggestion
inside an actor, prefer `ActorContext.ask` as it provides better thread-safety by not involving
```
